# Clean tests

In this exercise we are going to deduplicate the code from the previous exercise.

## Exercise: Moving duplicate code to a method

Move the `Playwright`, `Browser`, `BrowserContext` and `Page` objects to class instance variables as is shown [HERE](https://playwright.dev/java/docs/test-runners#testng).



2. Create `@BeforeClass` and `@AfterClass` annotations to launch and close the browser respectively. 
3. Do this similarly for the `BrowserContext` and `Page` objects. These will be part of the `@BeforeMEthod` and `@AfterMethod` annotations.
4. Define the following method in your test file where you have your test that creates a song and add it above the test:


```java
void createSong() { }
```

Move the test code that creates the song into the body of the `createSong` method and call the method as follows:

```java
createSong(page);
```

Run the tests.

## Exercise: Moving to a method

It already looks a lot cleaner, but we can do better. Suppose we have multiple test files that need to create songs. In that case, this solution will not suffice, because it only works for this file.

In this exercise we will move the `createSong` method to a centralized place.

Create a new file in your `tests/utils` folder called `SongManager.java`.

Add the following imports to the file:

```java
import static com.microsoft.playwright.assertions.PlaywrightAssertions.assertThat;

import com.microsoft.playwright.Page;
import com.microsoft.playwright.options.AriaRole;
```

Move the `createSong` method to this file and make it public.

```java
    public void createSong() { ... }
```

You also need to make the `Page` object an instance variable of the `SongManager` class. 

In your testfile import the `SongManager` class:

```java
import org.tests.utils.SongManager;
```
Find the correct place to instantiate the `SongManager` and call your `createSong` method as follows:

```java
songManager.createSong();
```

Run the tests. What happens?

## Exercise: A method for cleaning up

Similar to the previous exercise, try to make a method for the cleanup action, which is:

```java
page.navigate(Constants.SERVER_URL + "/reset");
```

You can go further into creating a `Song` Class, make the method more flexible to create or edit any song, using software design patterns, etc. The purpose of this exercise is to give you a start and show you how to clean up your code.
