# Authenticate once

Often we want to write tests for scenarios in which a user needs to be logged in. In this exercise we will learn how to log in and to persist this logged in state for other tests.

## Exercise: Registering

1. In you browser navigate to the application (`localhost:8080`).
2. Click on `SIGN UP` in the top right corner.
3. Choose an email address and password of your liking (the email address doesn't need to be a real one).
4. Write down the credentials somewhere, because you'll need them in the rest of the exercise.
5. Click on `REGISTER`.

After you registered, you are immediately logged in. You'll notice the homepage looks a bit different. The previous panel has been shifted to the left of the screen and there are two new components on the left of the page:

1. Bookmarks
2. Recently Viewed Songs

## Exercise: logging in.

1. Write a new test file `LoginTest.java` with a test that logs in using the credentials you specified in the previous exercise.

2. At the end of the test, write an expect that checks if the Bookmarks component is visible on the homepage.
3. Write a new test in the same file that checks if the `Recently Viewed Songs` component is visible on the homepage. You need to be logged in for this test to succeed.
4. Create a new testng configuration file, for example `testngAuth.xml` with the following contents:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE suite SYSTEM "https://testng.org/testng-1.0.dtd">
<suite name="End2End Suite" parallel="classes">
    <test name="Login">
        <classes>
            <class name="org.tests.LoginTest" />
        </classes>
    </test>
</suite>
```
5. Run your tests from the CLI with `mvn test`. 
6. Make a note of how long your testrun for both tests takes.

As a reference: In my case it took about `15` seconds.

## Exercise: Authenticate once

This example is simple, but consider a real world scenario where you have many tests that need a user to be logged in. You want to run these tests as reliable and as fast as possible. The more tests you have, the more of a bottleneck the logging in steps become.
With Playwright we can log in once, save the authentication state and reuse this state in all the subsequent tests. In this exercise you learn how to achieve this. If you are interested in the details, you can find those [HERE](https://playwright.dev/java/docs/auth).

For all the steps below, refer to [THIS](https://playwright.dev/java/docs/auth#reusing-signed-in-state) example.

1. At the end of the login testmethod that you created in the previous exercise, write the logged in state to a file, for example:
   ```java
   context.storageState(new BrowserContext.StorageStateOptions().setPath(Paths.get("state.json")));
   ```
2. Move the second test to a new file, for example `LoginRequiredTest.java`
3. In the method where you create your `BrowserContext`, load the state from the path as is described [HERE](https://playwright.dev/java/docs/auth#reusing-signed-in-state).
4. Remove all the unnecessary code from your test method, you should be left with only 2 lines of code.
5. Edit your `testngAuth.xml` file as follows:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE suite SYSTEM "https://testng.org/testng-1.0.dtd">
<suite name="End2End Suite" parallel="classes">
    <test name="Login">
        <classes>
            <class name="org.tests.LoginTest" />
        </classes>
    </test>
    <test name="TestsRequiringLoggedInstate">
        <classes>
            <class name="org.tests.LoginRequiredTest" />
        </classes>
    </test>
</suite>
```
6. Run your tests in the CLI with `mvn test`.

What do you notice? Do your tests run faster? How many times did the login occur?
