# Debugging

Although slowing down tests can give a better impression of what is going on, we often would like to be able to zoom in to specific parts of the tests, especially if those parts fail.

## Exercise: Starting the Playwright inspector

Try to run all tests in debug mode with the following command:

```bash
PWDEBUG=1 PLAYWRIGHT_JAVA_SRC="./src/main/java" mvn compile exec:java -D exec.mainClass="org.tests.ExampleTest"
```

You will see an additional window, which is the Playwright inspector. In this window, the code of `ExampleTest.java` is shown. The test will halt at the start.
Click on the green resume button or press F8 in the Playwright inspector to resume the test.

You should see the homepage of Playwright for a brief moment, before the test terminates.

## Exercise: Adding a test runner

A test runner is a tool that is able to run and debug your tests. In addition, you can also filter which tests you want to run and whether you want to run them in parallel. Annotations, such as `@BeforeAll` and `@AfterAll` can be useful to setup and cleanup your test data.
Playwright works with the JUnit or the TestNG test runner.

In this exercise you will add TestNG.

1. Add the following to the dependencies in your `pom.xml` file:
```xml
<dependency>
   <groupId>org.testng</groupId>
   <artifactId>testng</artifactId>
   <version>7.5</version>
   <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
``` 

1. In you ExampleTest.java class change the `static void` to a `void` without arguments.
2. Change the name of your void from `main` to something like `shouldNavigateToPlaywrightHomepage`
3. Decorate your method with the `@Test` annotation.
4. You should now be able to run this test by clicking on the play button in your IDE. If you don't see this, then you would probably need to install an extension for you IDE. For VSCode you can install the extension `vscjava.vscode-java-pack`.

## Exercise: Adding a breakpoint

To increase control of our debugging process, you will add a breakpoint. Breakpoints are used to tell a program to halt execution on the point where you placed the breakpoint.

1. Append this code to the end of your test method in your `ExampleTest.java` file:
   ```java
   page.pause();
   page.getByText("Getting Started").click();
   ```
2. Run your test with TestNG.
3. In the Playwright inspector window, click on the resume button.

What do you notice? In what scenarios could this be useful?

TIP: You can also place breakpoints directly in your test files by clicking in the gutter on the line that you want to break on. Running TestNG in debug mode will automatically pause on that line, without the need of specifying a `page.pause()` statement.

## Exercise: Live editing locators

When you are in the last step of the previous exercise do the following:

1. Click on the `Locator` tab in the bottom of the Playwright inspector.
2. Type in the following: 
```java
getByText('Playwright')
```

What do you notice? Scroll down the page and see what is happening.

Click around a bit more in the Playwright inspector. Explore the `Pick locator` and `Log`.
