# [Test generation](https://playwright.dev/java/docs/codegen-intro)

In one of the previous exercises you have seen how to record and generate a test file in the test explorer window with the Playwright extension.
In this exercise we will see a different way of generating tests.

## Exercise: Running Codegen

Run Codegen by typing the following in your terminal

```bash
mvn exec:java -e -D exec.mainClass=com.microsoft.playwright.CLI -D exec.args="codegen localhost:8080"
```

This will start a browser instance and navigate to the application URL. Also, Playwright Inspector is opened in a separate window. If you don't see the songs immediately, you may want to refresh the page.

## Exercise: Options

You can also start codegen with a specific browser, for example Firefox:

```bash
mvn exec:java -e -D exec.mainClass=com.microsoft.playwright.CLI -D exec.args="codegen --browser ff localhost:8080"
```

There are even more options that you can explore by typing:

```bash
mvn exec:java -e -D exec.mainClass=com.microsoft.playwright.CLI -D exec.args="codegen --help"
```

Try for example to open a website on a Galaxy S9+ in a different language.

## Exercise: Explore

By default, codegen will run in record mode. This means that everything you do once it is started, will be generated as code in the Playwright Inspector window. You can switch the Target to a different language and the test script will change accordingly. This can be useful if you need to  write your tests in a different programming language.

If you click on `Record` the recording will stop and you'll notice a new panel at the bottom of the Playwright Inspector. Try clicking on the locator icon, which has the form of a target. Click on any element in the browser window. You will see that the selector is copied to the panel.
It also works the other way around. You can type for example `text = nevermind` and the found element fill be highlighted. This is a helpful way to learn the selector syntax of Playwright.

## Exercise: Reflection

What did you learn in this section and in which case would you use codegen?
