# Getting started

## Welcome !

These pages serve as documentation for the Playwright Training. You can work through the exercises at your own pace. Read carefully and if you have any questions feel free to ask.

## Running the project

In order to run the project locally, it is required that you have `Node`, `Git` and `VSCode` installed.

If you don't have these installed yet you can find them here:

- https://nodejs.org/en (Choose the LTS version)
- https://git-scm.com/download
- https://code.visualstudio.com/download

Afterwards follow the instructions in the next section 'Checking out the project'.

## Checking out the project

1. Fork the [project from GitHub](https://github.com/xebia/cypress-training) to your own Github account. You can do this by clicking on the link and when it opens in the upper right corner on the `Fork` button. In the next window specify a name and click on `Create fork`.
2. Create a folder on your machine where you would like to have your code in
3. Clone the forked repository into that folder by using the following command in a terminal:

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/[your account]/[your forked repository name].git [your directory]
```

This downloads all the source code into the folder.

4. Navigate to the folder
5. Open VSCode with the following command:

```bash
code .
```

## Installing Playwright

Create a new terminal inside VSCode by pressing [Ctrl + Shift + \`] (Windows) or [Cmd + Shift + \`] (macOS)

### IMPORTANT! Install Playwright in the client folder with the following commands:

```bash
cd client
npm init playwright@latest 
```

Follow the on screen prompts and choose the options that work for you.
Playwright will do the following:

- Initialize Playwright test, which is used to write and run tests.
- Install the browser binaries for Firefox, Chromium and Webkit
- Add a configuration file

### About NPM

NPM is a package manager for Node.js. See [npmjs.com](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/what-is-npm#what-is-npm) for more info.
In both the folders 'server' and 'client' you find a file called package.json.
This package.json holds all the information (names, versions) about the npm packages that are used in the project.
When you run `npm i`, it gathers all the names and versions and tries to install these packages from the public NPM registry.

The package.json file also defines scripts as shortcuts.
In this case you may see a line in the `client/package.json` with: "start": "node build/dev-server.js".
This will allow you to type `npm run start` in your terminal instead of `node build/dev-server.js`.
