# Authenticate once

Often we want to write tests for scenarios in which a user needs to be logged in. In this exercise we will learn how to log in and to persist this logged in state for other tests.

## Exercise: Registering

- In you browser navigate to the application (`localhost:8080`).
- Click on `SIGN UP` in the top right corner.
- Choose an email address and password of your liking (the email address doesn't need to be a real one).
- Write down the credentials somewhere, because you'll need them in the rest of the exercise.
- Click on `REGISTER`.

After you registered, you are immediately logged in. You'll notice the homepage looks a bit different. The previous panel has been shifted to the left of the screen and there are two new components on the left of the page:

1. Bookmarks
2. Recently Viewed Songs

## Exercise: logging in.

- Write a new test file `login.test.ts` with a test that logs in using the credentials you specified in the previous exercise.

- At the end of the test, write an expect that checks if the Bookmarks component is visible on the homepage.
- Write a new test in the same file that checks if the `Recently Viewed Songs` component is visible on the homepage. You need to be logged in for this test to succeed.

What do you notice when writing the second test?
Make a note of how long your testrun takes.

As a reference: In my case it took about `9` seconds.

## Exercise: Authenticate once

This example is simple, but consider a real world scenario where you have many tests that need a user to be logged in. You want to run these tests as reliable and as fast as possible. The more tests you have, the more of a bottleneck the logging in steps become.
With Playwright we can log in once, save the authentication state and reuse this state in all the subsequent tests. In this exercise you learn how to achieve this. If you are interested in the details, you can find those [HERE](https://playwright.dev/docs/auth#reuse-signed-in-state).

For all the steps below, refer to [THIS](https://playwright.dev/docs/test-advanced#global-setup-and-teardown) example.

- Create a file in the `client/tests` folder named `global-setup.ts`.
- Open your Playwright config file and set the `globalSetup` property to `./tests/global-setup`.
- Write the global setup function.
- Substitute the steps from the example with the steps you wrote for logging in.
- Open your Playwright config file and fill in the `storageState` property. Set it to a file path of your liking, for example `tests/storage-state/storageState.json`.
- Remove the login steps in your tests in the `login.test.ts` file.
- Run the tests. What do you notice? Do they run faster? How many times did the login occur?


## Bonus exercise: Only login once for the login tests

If you run your other tests that don't necessarily require a login state, they may fail, especially the visual regression test, since the added components result in a different screen than the logged out scenario.
It is not possible to log in once only for specific tests, since it is defined in the global setup. A global setup runs before all tests, but there is a way, by using the storage state.

- Read the storage state only for the login tests. 

If you would like a recap on this exercise, I also wrote a [blog post](https://qxperts.io/authenticate-once-with-playwright/) on this subject. It contains all the steps and code samples.